README.md, before:

# 🧠 DevLab – Vývojová vrstva nad Jarvikem / DevLab – Development layer for Jarvik

## English

**DevLab** is a standalone development sub‑application within the **Jarvik** ecosystem. It focuses on intelligent code generation, validation and management with help of cooperating AI models. While the project is in an early stage, it aims to simplify Python development, API design and working with GitHub repositories.

### Features
- AI assisted generation of code snippets
- Simple validation stubs ready for future extension
- `DevLabManager` orchestrating generation and validation steps
- Designed to integrate with the Jarvik platform

### Installation
1. Clone this repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-org/jarvik-devlab.git
cd jarvik-devlab
```
2. Create and activate a Python virtual environment. This is required on systems
   that implement [PEP 668](https://peps.python.org/pep-0668/) with an
   externally managed Python installation. Keep the environment active when
   running `install.sh` or `upgrade.sh`.
```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```
3. Install Python dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
4. With the virtual environment still active, run `./install.sh` to install the
   package locally
5. With the virtual environment active, run `./upgrade.sh` to update to the newest release

### Basic usage
```python
from devlab.manager import DevLabManager

manager = DevLabManager()
code = manager.run("Create a simple Hello World application")
print(code)
```

### Command line interface
You can also interact with DevLab directly from a terminal. After installing the
package, run:

```bash
devlab-cli "Create a simple Hello World application"
```

Omitting the prompt starts an interactive mode where you can enter multiple
prompts one by one.

### Exporting data
You can save DevLab context for later review:

* **Export memory** – compresses the `dev_memory/` directory into a `memory_export.zip` archive by calling `DevEngine.export_memory()`.
* **Export knowledge** – collects all entries from `knowledge_db/` into `knowledge_export.json` using `DevEngine.export_knowledge()`.

Open `DevLab/ui/devlab_ui.html` and use the provided links, or call the methods directly in your Python code.

### Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Fork the repository, create a feature branch and open a pull request.

### Reporting issues
If you encounter problems or have suggestions, please open an issue on GitHub.

### License
This project is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

---

## Čeština

**DevLab** je samostatná vývojová podaplikace v rámci systému **Jarvik**. Jejím cílem je generovat, validovat a spravovat kód pomocí spolupracujících AI modelů. Projekt je v rané fázi, ale má ulehčit vývoj v Pythonu, návrhy API i práci s GitHub repozitáři.

### Funkce
- Generování úryvků kódu za pomoci AI
- Základní validace připravené k dalšímu rozšiřování
- `DevLabManager` koordinuje kroky generování a validace
- Navrženo pro integraci do platformy Jarvik

### Instalace
1. Naklonujte tento repozitář
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-org/jarvik-devlab.git
cd jarvik-devlab
```
2. Vytvořte a aktivujte virtuální prostředí. Na systémech s
   [PEP 668](https://peps.python.org/pep-0668/) je to nutné. Prostředí
   ponechte aktivní při spouštění `install.sh` nebo `upgrade.sh`.
```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```
3. Nainstalujte Python závislosti
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
4. Se stále aktivním virtuálním prostředím spusťte `./install.sh` pro lokální
   instalaci balíčku
5. Pro aktualizaci na nejnovější verzi aktivujte virtuální prostředí a
   spusťte `./upgrade.sh`

### Základní použití
```python
from devlab.manager import DevLabManager

manager = DevLabManager()
code = manager.run("Vytvoř jednoduchou aplikaci Hello World")
print(code)
```

### Příkazová řádka
DevLab můžete ovládat i z terminálu. Po instalaci spusťte:

```bash
devlab-cli "Vytvoř jednoduchou aplikaci Hello World"
```

Bez zadaného promptu se spustí interaktivní režim pro více dotazů.

### Jak přispět
Budeme rádi za pull requesty. Forkněte repozitář, vytvořte větev a odešlete návrh ke schválení.

### Hlášení chyb
Pro nahlášení chyby nebo návrh nového vylepšení založte issue na GitHubu.

### Licence
Tento projekt je publikován pod licencí [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

docs: describe devlab_venv helper

README.md, after:

# 🧠 DevLab – Vývojová vrstva nad Jarvikem / DevLab – Development layer for Jarvik

## English

**DevLab** is a standalone development sub‑application within the **Jarvik** ecosystem. It focuses on intelligent code generation, validation and management with help of cooperating AI models. While the project is in an early stage, it aims to simplify Python development, API design and working with GitHub repositories.

### Features
- AI assisted generation of code snippets
- Simple validation stubs ready for future extension
- `DevLabManager` orchestrating generation and validation steps
- Designed to integrate with the Jarvik platform

### Installation
1. Clone this repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-org/jarvik-devlab.git
cd jarvik-devlab
```
2. Create and activate a Python virtual environment. This is required on systems
   that implement [PEP 668](https://peps.python.org/pep-0668/) with an
   externally managed Python installation. Keep the environment active when
   running `install.sh` or `upgrade.sh`.
```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```
3. Install Python dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
4. With the virtual environment still active, run `./install.sh` to install the
   package locally

5. With the virtual environment active, run `./upgrade.sh` to update to the newest release

You can optionally start DevLab using the helper script `./devlab_venv.sh`. The
script creates (or reuses) a local `.venv`, installs the dependencies, runs
`install.sh` and then launches `devlab-cli`. The `upgrade.sh` script still
expects an active virtual environment or you can extend the helper to call it.

### Basic usage
```python
from devlab.manager import DevLabManager

manager = DevLabManager()
code = manager.run("Create a simple Hello World application")
print(code)
```

### Command line interface
You can also interact with DevLab directly from a terminal. After installing the
package, run:

```bash
devlab-cli "Create a simple Hello World application"
```

Omitting the prompt starts an interactive mode where you can enter multiple
prompts one by one.

### Exporting data
You can save DevLab context for later review:

* **Export memory** – compresses the `dev_memory/` directory into a `memory_export.zip` archive by calling `DevEngine.export_memory()`.
* **Export knowledge** – collects all entries from `knowledge_db/` into `knowledge_export.json` using `DevEngine.export_knowledge()`.

Open `DevLab/ui/devlab_ui.html` and use the provided links, or call the methods directly in your Python code.

### Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Fork the repository, create a feature branch and open a pull request.

### Reporting issues
If you encounter problems or have suggestions, please open an issue on GitHub.

### License
This project is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

---

## Čeština

**DevLab** je samostatná vývojová podaplikace v rámci systému **Jarvik**. Jejím cílem je generovat, validovat a spravovat kód pomocí spolupracujících AI modelů. Projekt je v rané fázi, ale má ulehčit vývoj v Pythonu, návrhy API i práci s GitHub repozitáři.

### Funkce
- Generování úryvků kódu za pomoci AI
- Základní validace připravené k dalšímu rozšiřování
- `DevLabManager` koordinuje kroky generování a validace
- Navrženo pro integraci do platformy Jarvik

### Instalace
1. Naklonujte tento repozitář
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-org/jarvik-devlab.git
cd jarvik-devlab
```
2. Vytvořte a aktivujte virtuální prostředí. Na systémech s
   [PEP 668](https://peps.python.org/pep-0668/) je to nutné. Prostředí
   ponechte aktivní při spouštění `install.sh` nebo `upgrade.sh`.
```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```
3. Nainstalujte Python závislosti
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
4. Se stále aktivním virtuálním prostředím spusťte `./install.sh` pro lokální
   instalaci balíčku
5. Pro aktualizaci na nejnovější verzi aktivujte virtuální prostředí a
   spusťte `./upgrade.sh`

Pro rychlý start můžete použít pomocný skript `./devlab_venv.sh`. Ten
vytvoří (nebo znovu použije) lokální adresář `.venv`, nainstaluje závislosti,
spustí `install.sh` a následně `devlab-cli`. Skript `upgrade.sh` stále
předpokládá aktivní virtuální prostředí, případně můžete jeho volání
integrovat do tohoto skriptu.

### Základní použití
```python
from devlab.manager import DevLabManager

manager = DevLabManager()
code = manager.run("Vytvoř jednoduchou aplikaci Hello World")
print(code)
```

### Příkazová řádka
DevLab můžete ovládat i z terminálu. Po instalaci spusťte:

```bash
devlab-cli "Vytvoř jednoduchou aplikaci Hello World"
```

Bez zadaného promptu se spustí interaktivní režim pro více dotazů.

### Jak přispět
Budeme rádi za pull requesty. Forkněte repozitář, vytvořte větev a odešlete návrh ke schválení.

### Hlášení chyb
Pro nahlášení chyby nebo návrh nového vylepšení založte issue na GitHubu.

### Licence
Tento projekt je publikován pod licencí [MIT License](LICENSE).
